While setting up the DT-platform based on the initial setting of the physical system is an important initial task, maintaining consistency between the physical system and its virtual representation is an equally important task. As systems are prone to changes over time, to address new requirements or accommodate additional features, these changes must be reflected in the DT-platform as well. We simulated this need for co-evolution with the following four evolution cases.

In the following, the effort for performing these evolutions on the DT Platform are described and compared between the AML2DT setting and the traditional setting.

**Evolution Case 1 (EC1): *Add a new Raspberry:*** In the first case, a new Raspberry Pi (Raspberry4) is added to the system, together with a corresponding CO2 sensor. In a first step, the Raspberry Pi is used for initial testing of new features and hence not assigned to a particular room, while data still has to be sent to the Digital Twin. Therefore, the corresponding DT_Instance for this AirQualityController must be created in the dt-platform. 
- In the *AML2DT-supported approach*, this can be achieved by adding a new InternalElement of type AirQualityController, and adapting its name accordingly (2 changes). The resulting AML file is stored in [ec1.aml}(./ec1.aml).
- In the traditional approach, the add and rename changes must be performed in the adt service for the AirqualityController, and in the tsi service for the Sensor. Additionally, the name of the DigitalTwin must be set in the Raspberry code.

**Evolution Case 2 (EC2): *Add raspberry to room:*** After the setup of the individual device was completed (cf. EC1), it was assigned to a particular room (Room201) to report values for this specific room. In the DT-platforms this requires the following changes. (1) A new DT_Instance had to be created, and (2) the name of this instance was changed to Room201. (3) A link between Room201 and Raspberry4 must be established. These three changes had to be performed in the AML model for the AML2DT setting, and in the adt service for the traditional setting. The AML model resulting in the AML2DT setting is stored in [ec2.aml}(./ec2.aml)

**Evolution Case 3 (EC3): *Change name of Raspberry:*** DT evolution does not only include creating new elements, but could also require existing elements to be updated and modified. As a representative case of upating, the name of each raspberry is changed. The department responsible for the second floor wants to change its naming structure of the AirQualityControllers. Therefore, the name of Raspberry4 must be adapted to RPi4. 
- Therefore, in the AML model, the name of the corresponding InternalElement must be adapted (1 change). The resulting AML file is stored in [ec3.aml}(./ec3.aml).
- In the traditional setting, this name must be adapted for the corresponding instance of the Raspberry in the adt service (1 change), and the name of Sensor-instance in tsi which also consists of the corresponding Raspberry name to be uniquely identifiable (1 change). Additionally, the controller code must be adapted (1 code change)

**Evolution Case 4 (EC4): *Delete Room:*** Besides creating and updating elements, they can also be deleted after time. As an example from our demonstration case, we therefore deleted a room from our system. As the Lobby on floor 1 is no longer used due to government regulations concerning the meeting of several people within one room (and sensor values should not be reported), the room and the corresponding AirQualityController are deleted from the system.
- In AML2DT, this yielded 2 changes. In the AML model, both the Room and the corresponding AirQualityController had to be deleted (InternalLink and Sensor were deleted automatically). The resulting AML file is stored in [ec4.aml}(./ec4.aml). 
- In the traditional setting without the AML2DT support, there were three changes required in the adt service. Before deleting the Room and the AirQualityController, the link between the two had to be deleted. Additionally, the instance for the Sensor must be deleted in the tsi service.