# Description of PiCar

The PiCar consists of several components, namely four distance sensors, a motor control and a servo control. Two distance sensors are placed on the front side of the car and two distance sensors are placed on the rear side of the car. These sensors indicate any obstacles in the surrounding of the car by increasing voltage at the related sensor. The motor control is used to control the driving directions forward and backward, the speed and the traveled distance of the car. To control the steering direction, the servo control is used. The designed SysML state machine in the Figure formally describes the PiCar components and their implemented methods and transitions. In detail, the model specifies the behavior of the PiCar. At initialization of the car, all distance sensors are initialized and read continuously. The movement starts with steering straight and driving forward until any obstacle appear in front of the car. If there is an obstacle in the rear of the car, it stops. Otherwise it starts the reversing process by driving backward until a given time (5s) or distance of 8 reed units is passed. Afterwards the car steers to the right while continuing driving backward. Again, after a given time (2s) or a distance (8 reed units) is passed, the steering is set to left and the driving direction to forward. If any obstacle appears while driving forward, the reversing process is restarted. Otherwise the car steers straight after 5s or a distance of 8 reed units is passed, which transitions to the first state after initialization.

# Description of Demonstration Case
For the Demonstration Case, a reduced version of this PiCar is used. The particular setting in the used demonstration case is described in file carls.aml.
The code for setting up the demonstration case in the azure platform automatically, and verifying it by sending simulated data to the twins. For the setup, json-files are used that are automatically retrieved from the AML model by applying the AML2DT framework. The simulated data is retrieved from a test run with an actual car.
The code that was deployed on the car cannot be made public, as this is intellectual property of our industrial project partner.
## Required Adaptations